poseidon/dags/pv_production/README.md, before:

## About this job

This job creates datasets containing energy produced by solar photovoltaic systems and also integrates with 3rd-party dashboards for grant compliance.

Data sources: PowerFactors API

Owning department: Sustainability

SMEs: Shannon Sales, SSalese@sandiego.gov, and Bryan Olson, OlsonB@sandiego.gov

Date last updated: February 2020

## To Dos

- Future integration with Lucid BuildingOS API
- Add Malcolm X Library, Point Loma Library once systems are repaired

## Data transformations

The source of the data is a REST API with Power Factors, who have been contracted to provide the PV data. The data is queried from the API hourly, combined and saved to /data/temp, pushed to Lucid for dashboard integration, and appends a production dataset in /data/prod of all PV data since 2020. The production dataset will be uploaded to S3 once a day. 


### get_pv_data_write_temp

This function orchestrates calls to the Power Factor API, by utilizing two helper functions: API_to_csv and get_data. API_to_csv utilizes the get_data helper function to make calls, and stores the returned values to csv files in /data/temp. This function store the information to make both hourly and daily calls. get_data is a function that creates the proper HTTP request for the API.

### update_pv_prod

This function orchestrates the joining of the new data from /data/temp into the production file in /data/prod by utilizing the build_production_files helper function, and replaces the production dataset in /data/prod.

Commit message:

Added seaboard markdown updates, updated to-do in README

poseidon/dags/pv_production/README.md, after:

## About this job

This job creates datasets containing energy produced by solar photovoltaic systems and also integrates with 3rd-party dashboards for grant compliance.

Data sources: PowerFactors API

Owning department: Sustainability

SMEs: Shannon Sales, SSalese@sandiego.gov, and Bryan Olson, OlsonB@sandiego.gov

Date last updated: February 2020

## To Dos

- Change 15min to 5min in production csv
- Add functionality for trident.util.seaboard_updates.update_json_date
- Future integration with Lucid BuildingOS API
- Add Malcolm X Library, Point Loma Library once systems are repaired

## Data transformations

The source of the data is a REST API with Power Factors, who have been contracted to provide the PV data. The data is queried from the API hourly, combined and saved to /data/temp, pushed to Lucid for dashboard integration, and appends a production dataset in /data/prod of all PV data since 2020. The production dataset will be uploaded to S3 once a day. 

### get_pv_data_write_temp

This function orchestrates calls to the Power Factor API, by utilizing two helper functions: API_to_csv and get_data. API_to_csv utilizes the get_data helper function to make calls, and stores the returned values to csv files in /data/temp. This function store the information to make both hourly and daily calls. get_data is a function that creates the proper HTTP request for the API.

### update_pv_prod

This function orchestrates the joining of the new data from /data/temp into the production file in /data/prod by utilizing the build_production_files helper function, and replaces the production dataset in /data/prod.
